# YARN

JavaScript package manager that simplifies the process of managing dependencies in Node.js projects. It efficiently resolves package versions, caches downloads to speed up installations, and offers a simple CLI interface for adding, updating, and removing packages. Yarn also supports workspaces for managing multiple packages within a single project and provides global package management capabilities.

Yarn was created as an alternative to npm and is fully compatible with npm's package.json and node_modules structure.

## Key Components

### package.json

Contains metadata about the project, including its name, version, dependencies, scripts and other project-specific settings. It also lists the project's dependencies, which are external libraries and modules required for the project to run. Developers use this file to manage project configuration, specify dependencies, and define custom scripts for tasks like building, testing and running the application.

### yarn.lock

Generated by the Yarn package manager. It serves as a manifest that records the specific versions of all project dependencies, including transitive dependencies, in a deterministic and reproducible way. After adding dependencies, Yarn will automatically generate or update the yarn.lock file to record the specific versions of the packages installed.

### Yarn Workspaces

If your project consists of multiple packages (e.g., a monorepo setup), Yarn provides a feature called "workspaces." This feature allows you to manage dependencies and scripts across all packages in your project from a single location. It's beneficial for large-scale projects with multiple interconnected packages.

### Scripts

The "scripts" section within `package.json` allows you to define custom scripts for various tasks like building, testing, linting and running your application. Users can execute these scripts with the `yarn run` command. Custom scripts are valuable for automating common development and deployment tasks.

Here's an example of start and end scripts.

```
{
  "name": "apparel-ecomm-backend",
  "scripts": {
    "start": "node src/index.js",
    "seed": "node src/seed.js"
  },
}
```

To run the seed script:

```
$ yarn seed
```
	
## Quick Commands

* Add dependencies to a project:

	```
	$ yarn add <package>
	```

* Add dev dependencies:

	```
	$ yarn add --dev <package>
	# or
	$ yarn add -D <package>
	```
	
* Initialize a new project by creating a package.json file interactively:

	```
	$ yarn init
	```
	
* Install all the dependencies listed in your package.json file:

	```
	$ yarn install
	```

* Remove a package as a dependency:

	```
	$ yarn remove <package>
	```
	
* Upgrade a specific package to the latest version:

	```
	$ yarn upgrade <package>
	```	
	
* Upgrade all packages to their latest compatible versions:

	```
	$ yarn upgrade
	```	
	
* List all installed packages and their versions:

	```
	$ yarn list
	```	
	
* Install a package globally, so it's available across all projects:

	```
	$ yarn global add <package>
	```	